core/sds-aspect-model-document-generators/README.md, before:

# SDS Aspect Model Document Generator

This project provides functionality to generate a diagram, HTML page and a JSON payload from an Aspect Model.

## Diagram Generator

The diagram generator can generate an image in SVG, PNG or DOT format.

The `boxmodel.ttl` file contains the definition of an intermediate format which describes the boxes in the diagram
as well as the edges between these boxes.
For each BAMM element a SPARQL construct query resides in its own file, see the `*2boxmodel.sparql` files, which
creates a box or edge for the BAMM element.
Finally the `boxmodel2dot.sparql` construct query creates DOT statements from the boxes created for an Aspect Model. These
statements are then added to the `aspect2dot.mustache` template to create the final digraph required by Graphviz.
Graphviz is then used to render an image in the specified format.

### How it works

1. For each specified language the `Aspect to Box Model` files (.sparql) are loaded
2. The resulting query is executed against the loaded Aspect Model to create box for each Aspect Model element as well as the connections between them
3. The `Box Model to DOT` query is executed against the resulting Model containing these boxes
4. The final digraph is rendered using the `Aspect to DOT` mustache template applied to the resulting DOT string
5. If the requested format was DOT, the result is directly written to the specified location
6. For the SVG and PNG formats the result is passed to the Graphviz engine to be rendered in the corresponding format and written to the specified location

For more information on SPARQL construct queries, Graphviz and Mustache see:
- [SPARQL Construct](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-sparql-query/#construct)
- [Graphviz](https://www.graphviz.org/)
- [Mustache](https://mustache.github.io/)
 
## Document Generator

The document generator creates an HTML page for an Aspect Model. The page includes the diagram for the Aspect Model.

Embedding font and images for making the html page to run standalone without dependencies to the internet 
the following online service was used: https://www.font-converter.net/en/css-embedded-font-base64

### How it works

For the generation the aspect java meta model is used.

1. The Aspect Model definition file (.ttl) is loaded
2. The aspect meta model is instantiated with the contents of the loaded aspect meta model definition
3. The instantiated aspect meta model is used to generate Asciidoc using the `AspectModelAsciidoc.xtend` XTend template
4. The resulting Asciidoc is converted into an HTML file using AsciidoctorJ
5. The diagram for the Aspect Model is generated in SVG format and embedded into the HTML as a Base64 encoded String
6. The HTML is written to the specified location

The HTML page is generated for each language which is present in the Aspect Model.
 
 ## JSON Generator
 
 The JSON generator creates a sample JSON payload for an Aspect Model.
 
 ### How it works
 
 For the generation the aspect java meta model is used.
 
 1. The Aspect Model definition file (.ttl) is loaded
 2. The aspect meta model is instantiated with the contents of the loaded aspect meta model definition
 3. The instantiated aspect meta model is used to generate the JSON payload by iterating the elements of the aspect meta model and extracting the given example values for the properties. If no example value is given a random value is generated
 4. The generated JSON is written to the specified location

Commit message:

Support to adjust the HTML generation providing custom styles
fixes #17 - https://github.com/OpenManufacturingPlatform/sds-sdk/issues/17

core/sds-aspect-model-document-generators/README.md, after:

# SDS Aspect Model Document Generator

This project provides functionality to generate a diagram, HTML page and a JSON payload from an Aspect Model.

## Diagram Generator

The diagram generator can generate an image in SVG, PNG or DOT format.

The `boxmodel.ttl` file contains the definition of an intermediate format which describes the boxes in the diagram
as well as the edges between these boxes.
For each BAMM element a SPARQL construct query resides in its own file, see the `*2boxmodel.sparql` files, which
creates a box or edge for the BAMM element.
Finally the `boxmodel2dot.sparql` construct query creates DOT statements from the boxes created for an Aspect Model. These
statements are then added to the `aspect2dot.mustache` template to create the final digraph required by Graphviz.
Graphviz is then used to render an image in the specified format.

### How it works

1. For each specified language the `Aspect to Box Model` files (.sparql) are loaded
2. The resulting query is executed against the loaded Aspect Model to create box for each Aspect Model element as well as the connections between them
3. The `Box Model to DOT` query is executed against the resulting Model containing these boxes
4. The final digraph is rendered using the `Aspect to DOT` mustache template applied to the resulting DOT string
5. If the requested format was DOT, the result is directly written to the specified location
6. For the SVG and PNG formats the result is passed to the Graphviz engine to be rendered in the corresponding format and written to the specified location

For more information on SPARQL construct queries, Graphviz and Mustache see:
- [SPARQL Construct](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-sparql-query/#construct)
- [Graphviz](https://www.graphviz.org/)
- [Mustache](https://mustache.github.io/)
 
## Document Generator

The document generator creates an HTML page for an Aspect Model. The page includes the diagram for the Aspect Model.
The HTML page embedding all required styles, fonts and images for making the html page to run standalone without 
dependencies to the internet.

### How it works

For the generation the aspect java meta model is used.

1. The Aspect Model definition file (.ttl) is loaded
2. The aspect meta model is instantiated with the contents of the loaded aspect meta model definition
3. The instantiated aspect meta model is used to generate the HTMl page using Velocity templates
4. The diagram for the Aspect Model is generated in SVG format and embedded into the HTML as a Base64 encoded String
5. The required JavaScript, styles and font will be embedded into the HTML as a String
6. The HTML is written to the specified location

The HTML page is generated for each language which is present in the Aspect Model.

### Minimize Tailwind for production

The HTML page layout is based on Tailwind CSS. To minimize the general CSS provided via [CDN](https://unpkg.com/tailwindcss@^2/dist/tailwind.min.css)
using PurgeCSS (see [Build for production](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation#building-for-production)).

#### How it works

Precondition: PurgeCSS is installed following the [documentation](https://purgecss.com/CLI.html#installation).

1. Generate with the CLI an HTML page first
2. Update the purgecss.config.js and enter the path to the generated HTML page
3. Run PurgeCSS 'purgecss -c purgecss.config.js'

For more information on Velocity see:
- [Velocity](https://velocity.apache.org/engine/1.7/user-guide.html)
- [PurgeCSS](https://purgecss.com)
- [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/docs)

 ## JSON Generator
 
 The JSON generator creates a sample JSON payload for an Aspect Model.
 
 ### How it works
 
 For the generation the aspect java meta model is used.
 
 1. The Aspect Model definition file (.ttl) is loaded
 2. The aspect meta model is instantiated with the contents of the loaded aspect meta model definition
 3. The instantiated aspect meta model is used to generate the JSON payload by iterating the elements of the aspect meta model and extracting the given example values for the properties. If no example value is given a random value is generated
 4. The generated JSON is written to the specified location
